[‹ Index](README.md)

# Episodes
The following notes have been collected from unreliable sources and shattered memory fragments.

* [Episode 01 - The Adventure Begins](#episode-01)
* [Episode 02 - The Battle for Umbrage Hill](#episode-02)
* [Episode 03 - The Long Cold Dark](#episode-03)
* [Episode 04 - Meanwhile...](#episode-04)
* Episode 05 - Tomorrow Comes Today (...coming soon)

## Episode 01
### The Adventure Begins
##### Dimble, Gabranth, Tenaj, TK Crumback

**2019/09/28**  
One misty morning long ago, a sullen elven ranger known only by the name of [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) emerged silently from the forest's edge and approached [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin). It was the first town he'd visited in near a tenday. Normally he preferred the comfort of the wilderness and avoided urban affairs, but his search for a rumored dragon had run cold and he needed a lead. Besides, this modest town was hardly the big city that [Neverwinter](locations.md#neverwinter) was. He focused on his intended mission, passed several shuttered buildings on the oddly empty street, and approached the town's only inn.

[The Stonehill Inn](locations.md#the-stonehill-inn) was busier than usual on the morning of that fateful day. [Toblen Stonehill](npc.md#toblen-stonehill), the innkeeper and sole proprieter was washing mugs and chatting it up with a locally famous tiefling musician called [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj). Among the early crowd of over twenty patrons, [TK Crumback](players.md#tk-crumback) sat at the bar awaiting the arrival of long-time not-seen friend [Dimble](players.md#dimble). A ghostly gray dog was sprawled out on the inn floor, a crudely fashioned tag hung from his leather collar declared his name, [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl). [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) eyed [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) with canine curiosity as the ranger swung open the front door and pressed toward the bar.

[Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) deftly worked his way past a disheveled crowd of people who were clearly miners, a few humans who didn't look old enough to be drinking mead (clearly minors), and a staggered trio of already day-drunk dwarves. He joined [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj), [TK](players.md#tk-crumback), and [Dimble](players.md#dimble) at the bar for an inspired round of eyebrow-raising conversation that eventually resulted in singing, drinking and the general sort of revelry that seemed to follow most of [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj)'s better musical performances. It was at this point, that Toblen confirmed that a dragon had indeed been spotted flying high above [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin), explaining the empty streets and unusually crowded inn. Seeing potential, one of the more sober dwarves from the previously mentioned drunken trio, desperately asked the four to venture into a nearby excavation site to warn his friends [Dazlyn Grayshard](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) and [Norbus Ironrune](npc.md#norbus-ironrune) of the danger they were in with a dragon hunting about.

Despite their scattered and meandering origins, the group found direction and purpose in their sense of duty to protect the land from the clutches of a ravaging dragon. Although they weren't fully aware of it yet, that day those four formed a formidable force for good. Before the group left the inn around mid-day, [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) connected with [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) the dog and learned of a manticore that was skulking around Umbrage Hill to the east. A manticore would be an interesting monster to hunt, but that would just have to wait.

Outside [the Stonehill Inn](locations.md#the-stonehill-inn) a light mist of rain began to fall. The force collected a scrap of parchment that was tacked onto the job board hanging outside the inn. Turns out the townmaster Harbin Wester was conveniently offering a reward for warning miners at the [dwarven excavation](locations.md#dwarven-excavation). While the group was milling about in the courtyard, [Dimble](players.md#dimble) and [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) noticed a shrine with seven unlit candles on it. It was a shrine to the goddess of luck, Tymora. After a brief inspection, the candles seemed too damp to light. Undeterred, [Dimble](players.md#dimble) called down a moonbeam as [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) thumped a sacred rhythm of thaumaturgy on her perfectly tuned drum which caused the candles to burst forth in green flame! Although the two of them felt slightly luckier, not much else seemed to happen but the effect of green glow emanating from the lit candles refracting in the light rain and newly-forming puddles was kind of nice.

The force of four then traveled south to the [dwarven excavation](locations.md#dwarven-excavation) site. Upon arrival, they cautiously approached and came to find [Dazlyn](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) & [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune) looting the ruins of what appeared to be an altar room. Inspecting the architecture and some conspicuously placed statues, the group discovered that the ruins were a temple to Abbathor, the dwarven god of greed. As the group explored the ruins with their new dwarven companions, they were set upon by a group of foul ochre jellies. After a brief stint of combat, the force dispatched the jellies and discovered a false column that contained a horde of gems. Wanting to keep to the mission and not spend time finding a buyer for the gems, [Dazlyn](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) bought the entire chest from the group for 50 gold pieces.

While they negotiated and bartered, the party was interrupted by a small faction of orcs that had come to the excavation looking for easy prey and plunder. Instead of immediately attacking the force surprised the orcs by using subterfuge and illusion to create an impressive display of monstrous power that scared all but one of them away. That last orc's bravery was rewarded with an ice knife, slung from the darkness by [Dimble](players.md#dimble) with such velocity and precision that it sunk deep into his chest before exploding into fragments, killing him instantly.

Feeling significantly stronger, slightly richer, and not much worse for wear, the force was rewarded through closed doors by the reclusive Harbin Wester when they returned to [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin). [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) gave a wag of the tail and [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) had fresh mugs waiting for them at [the Stonehill Inn](locations.md#the-stonehill-inn). 


## Episode 02
### The Battle for Umbrage Hill
##### Dimble, Gabranth, Tenaj, TK Crumback

**2019/10/20**  
The next day, three of the force of four awoke in their rooms at [the Stonehill Inn](locations.md#the-stonehill-inn). [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) was already downstairs, feeling refreshed from his overnight meditation in the nearby forest. As they all started their day, they each noticed that the ground floor of the inn was slightly more crowded this morning than it had been the day before. While they were convening at the bar and exchanging morning pleasantries with [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill), a hulk of a man in battle-hardened leather and rusting chainmail armor burst in through the front door and called [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) to a private conference. [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) overheard that the man was irritated due to the fact that a shipment of provisions he was expecting was delayed by a full day. With nothing to do but wait, the greasy beefcake of a stranger chomped on a carved toothpick and turned his attention to the patrons of the inn. Before long he was hurling insults and barking orders while pounding mugs of ale like shots of whisky. The man was [Doberan Flank](npc.md#doberan-flank), or so he told the force when he was asked.

As the force of four were being bossed around by this bullish stranger, [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) the dog insistently vied for [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth)'s attention. Connecting with the animal's mind, [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) learned that [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) could clearly smell the manticore at [Umbrage Hill](locations.md#umbrage-hill) but there were now new smells from the east. Smells of orcs... and blood. [Fenryl](npc.md#fenryl) was very worried because he liked the nice lady at [Umbrage Hill](locations.md#umbrage-hill). She always rubbed his head and gave him treats when she visited the inn. As [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) relayed this information to the group, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) declared the thought of the force dealing with a manticore to be hilarious. He offered to accompany them as a protector for 50 gold pieces. The group refused, and headed out the front door while [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) went out back to relieve himself of the water content he had imbibed over the course of half a dozen mugs.

Shortly after the group left the inn, they were approached by a rough looking group of the local 'security' patrol, the Redbrand Ruffians. The ruffians demanded to know who the group were and what their business was in [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin). These officials weren't acting very official as they implied threats of violence and not-so-subtly suggested bribes to avoid trouble. Just as [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) was about to draw an arrow, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) barreled out of the inn and startled the Redbrand crew. One of the ruffians expressed his surprise to see that [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) was in town, and asked if he was staying at the Sleeping Giant. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) replied that he hadn't expected to be in town that long. The leader of the ruffian crew then asked if our force of four was with [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank), and after a pregnant pause, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) said, "Yes. Now fuck off." The Redbrand Ruffians politely cooperated with his suggestion, and off they fucked.

Outside the inn, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) attended to his horse and a magnificent horse it was. The horse's coat was a glistening black and its deep dark eyes were decorated with eyelashes so long that the perceptive among us noticed them before almost anything else. A flowing mane draped leisurely over the horse's thick neck and its matching tail hung almost to the ground. Ornately embroidered in silky green thread on the side of his well-oiled pitch black saddle was a single word in cursive, Luck. Luck's reins and bridle were clearly expertly crafted in black leather with shiny green powder-coated iron linkages. Adorning the saddle on each side were four emerald inlaid four-leaf clovers about two inches in diameter. Even Luck's shoes were customized with four-leaf clovers that left a distinct footprint behind him when he walked. 

As [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) fed Luck an apple, the group reconsidered his offer and, after some negotiating to get the best price, they agreed to hire his sword to cover them on their quest to [Umbrage Hill](locations.md#umbrage-hill). After a brief round of shopping and gearing up at the [Lionshield Coster](locations.md#lionshield-coster), the force paid tribute once more to the goddess Tymora at the luck shrine and then set off on their quest. Interestingly, the group noticed that as they traveled alongside [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) mounted on Luck, their feet felt lighter and they moved swiftly together without tiring. Luck was definitely with them, or so it seemed. 

On the road, their luck seemed to shift a bit. The sky had gotten progressively darker as they travelled and the usual misty rain had turned into stinging bites of frost. Approaching [Umbrage Hill](locations.md#umbrage-hill), the group heard commotion before they saw what was causing it. Moving cautiously, they split up with [Dimble](players.md#dimble), [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj), [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank), and Luck taking a circuitous route around the outside and behind the stone windmill that dominated the eastern side of the property, while [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) and [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) climbed a hill to the west and took cover behind some decrepit dwarven cairns. [TK](players.md#tk-crumback)'s observant eye spotted two stones among the cairns that appeared to be special. On close inspection, he discovered that they were magical sending stones which he quickly pocketed. As everyone got into position, they saw what was causing such a ruckus. A manticore and two orcs were hacking away at the iron gate to [Adabra](npc.md#adabra-gwynn)'s windmill. Not far away from the three raiders, the spattered remains of an orc were strewn about the yard. The manticore was in charge of this makeshift raiding party, a position he obviously took by force.

The sky grew darker and the icy rain fell harder. Preserving the element of surprise, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) dismounted and left Luck grazing on the hillside before creeping up on the side of the windmill with [Dimble](players.md#dimble) and [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj). [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) steadied his bow and [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) prepared spells to attack. With a nod from [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank), the force hit the raiding party with all their might. A fearsome battle ensued, testing the might of everyone in the party. It didn't take long for the group to realize they had paid a drunk man to protect them as [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) fumbled through several attacks, leaving most of the work to the force. One orc dropped. Then the other went down. Everyone in the party was exchanging blows with the manticore and although they were winning, the battle was clearly taking its toll. Just as they were about to land the final blow, the sound of wings approaching drew their eyes to the sky to see... a female manticore approaching! As an arrow pierced her mate's noggin, splitting it wide, the female manticore roared agonizingly and set upon the force with rage pumping through her beastly heart. Descending on the party, things were looking very bleak. There was little chance they would survive a second manticore's onslaught without recuperating and [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) was drunkenly leaning on his sword looking exhausted.

Claws out and thirsty for blood, the manticore was nonetheless startled to hear the sound of approaching wings that was deeper and more forceful than its own. Although it was only mid-afternoon, the sky was now black as night and the falling ice was relentlessly punishing any skin that happened to be exposed. Squinting through the darkness, what little light remained reflected off the scaly white wings of the dragon which was now certainly more real than rumor. Diving through the ice, the dragon's massive weight tested the windmill's structural integrity as he slammed onto the top, surveying the wet frozen battleground and its comparatively tiny shocked opponents who were now all fixated on one thing, the gargantuan dragon looking back at them.

They stood there for what seemed like an eternity, each of them (including the second manticore) seeing a dragon for the first time in their lives. As they gaped, the dragon took a deep breath and... laughed at them. It was a deep, guttural, animalistic growling chuckle, but the sound of laughter was unmistakable. Then, its eyes shimmered an icy blue and it drew its mighty head back. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) snapped out of it and yelled, "Hide you fools!" before diving behind cover. His command snapped the force out of their trance and everyone found a place to hide.

Just as they did, the dragon let loose a fearsome burst of frosted icicle projectile vomit that sprayed the entire hillside with a frozen glaze, encasing the fear-crippled female manticore completely in ice. Swooping down from its perch, the great white dragon opened its reticulating jaw and in one motion it bit the frozen manticore off at the ankles and flew off into the darkness.

Rattled and battle-tested, the force connected with [Adabra Gwynn](npc.md#adabra-gwynn) who rewarded them with potions and some magical items she had been saving. After some cajoling the force convinced [Adabra](npc.md#adabra-gwynn) to return to [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin) for her own safety. Nobody spoke a word on the journey back, and it wasn't clear which was more disturbing; the blackened sky pelting them with ice, or the mental slow-motion replay of the horrors they had just encountered.

Arriving back in town, the weather began to let up a bit. As the force went to collect their reward from Harbin Wester, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) silently rode off in the direction of the Sleeping Giant. Returning to the inn, the force met [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune), who was trying to hide the fact that he was crying. As the group approached [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune), a single coin worked its way free and sprung from each of their pockets and pouches. [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) was the only one to notice as it was happening and he quickly caught his leaping coin between two fingers. Everyone else's coin hit the ground and rolled toward the sobbing [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune). As [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) inspected his coin he noticed it was different than the gold coins normally exchanged on the Sword Coast. It had a dagger on it pointing downward. The hilt of the dagger had two small gems in it and they were glowing softly. [Dimble](players.md#dimble) took a closer look and realized the coins were adorned with the cursed symbol of Abbathor, the dwarven god of greed.

Talking to [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune) revealed that [Dazlyn](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) was cursed. [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune) explained that when [Dazlyn](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) was inspecting the gems they found at the excavation site, he was stricken blind. [Norbus](npc.md#norbus-ironrune) had refused to look at the chest after that for fear of being cursed as well. The force reassured him the best they could and headed into the inn for some much needed rest. Everyone but [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) left their cursed coins in the cold mud outside.


## Episode 03
### The Long Cold Dark
##### Dimble, Gabranth, Scar, Tenaj, TK Crumback

**2019/12/08**  
Everyone in the force went to bed shortly after they got back the night before, except for [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth). Isolating himself to a corner of the bar where he was mostly out of the way in the now uncomfortably crowded inn, he stayed awake drinking and thinking. Eventually, stimulation gave way to exhaustion and he, too, retired to the forest for a deep slumbering meditation. As the four slept, they were troubled with nightmarish visions of a hellish future. There were crowds of people in horseless carriages and they all had polished sending stones. Everyone was subservient to a small number of absurdly wealthy and supremely powerful rulers and they were constantly under threat of something called 'financial insolvency'. Happily, the four were briefly awakened by a loud noise, before quickly falling asleep again. This time the four each dreamt of earlier days gone by and, although those days weren't all good ones, all of those days at least seemed somehow better by comparison to what had happened yesterday.

As each of the four got up and prepared to start their day, it became clear that there was some commotion happening in the bar downstairs. Some loud aggressive voices were bickering and there was a general murmur of malaise. As [Dimble](players.md#dimble), [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj), and [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) came downstairs, [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) came in the front door passing four Redbrand Ruffian soldiers. A Redbrand officer was pressing [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) for information, asking about four adventurers that were to be arrested. [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) was giving him nothing, when [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) burst into a stellar performance of _Glory to the Great Sword Coast_, which was so good it rallied the crowd to unite, put their hands over their hearts, and sing along. With the crowd now completely on her side, [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) triumphantly ordered a hot coffee from [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) and [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) considerately obliged.

The Redbrand officer applauded the performance, then said, "So... you must be [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj). By the order of the Lord of Neverwinter, I hereby place you under arrest." Having none of it, [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) threw her coffee at the officer but missed and hit [Toblen](npc.md#toblen-stonehill) instead. Still it created enough of a kerfluffle that the four started heading for the back door. As [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) and [Dimble](players.md#dimble) went to leave through the back, however, a giant hulk of a man in a full oil-slicked set of plate armor and a face covered by a helmet with a menacing face-mask came barreling through the door followed by an almost equally massive half-orc with a vicious scar that crossed his face from his right temple to his left jawbone.

With a loud yell, the man halted the chaos of the bar and pointed to the force of four. "There they are. These four are guilty. They summoned a dragon that nearly killed me and they murdered [Adabra Gwynn](npc.md#adabra-gwynn). You'll answer to the Lord of Neverwinter for this. You're all under arrest." He then handed [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) a parchment with the following words on it:

<div class="note">
<p>Good townfolk of Phandalin, take heed!</p>
<p>Four among you have brought imminent danger to our humble doorsteps. Perhaps you have heard of these so-called adventurers whose ravenous appetite for fortune and glory curses us all! Dealing with these miscreants has already caused one of your own to be stricken blind, and now an unnatural darkness covers the land threatening our bountiful harvest!</p>
<p>Trust that the lordship of Neverwinter is actively investigating the link between this band of fiends and the recent signs of evil magick. If you have information that leads to the arrest of:</p>
</div>
* [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth)
* [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj)
* [TK Crumback](players.md#tk-crumback) or...
* [Dimble the Gnome](players.md#dimble)

<div class="note"><p>please report it to your local Redbrand security agent immediately to receive a 100 gold piece reward.</p>

<p>Together, we will drive these villains from our land and save the Sword Coast!</p></div>

[Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) then commanded the [Scar](players.md#scar) to handcuff the accused. The four were arrested, then taken outside and loaded onto the back of a cart that was already quite full with rations, cold-weather gear, and other provisions. The sky was completely dark and had been since the four encountered the dragon yesterday. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) lit a torch and saddled up on Luck, that magnificent creature, while [Scar](players.md#scar) took the driver's seat on the supply cart. Without a word, the entire group left [Phandalin](locations.md#phandalin) for good. 

Suspiciously, when the supply cart got to the Triboar Trail [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) nodded at [Scar](players.md#scar) and they turned right. Realizing that they should have turned left to go to Neverwinter, [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) asked what was up but was told to shut it if he knew what was good for him. [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) decided to do as he was told, for now, and instead found a fur blanket in a box of cold-weather gear and gave it to [Dimble](players.md#dimble) and [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) for warmth. After traveling for most of the day, the sky remained dark and the weather was cold and slick with frost. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) brought the makeshift caravan to a halt and dismounted. He then told [Scar](players.md#scar) to cut everyone loose. [Scar](players.md#scar) drew his dagger and did the job, setting everyone free. 

After setting up camp, [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) demanded an explanation. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) explained that the message from Neverwinter had come in overnight. The Redbrand were all too eager to jump on it, wanting to collect the reward while sticking it to [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) and punishing the four for daring to resist the Redbrand's coercions. [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) knew they had nothing to do with summoning the dragon or killing [Adabra Gwynn](npc.md#adabra-gwynn), but to throw suspicion off himself he accused the four of doing just that. Convinced that the Lord of Neverwinter was corrupt and wanting to do the right thing by saving four innocent people, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) devised the plan to have him arrest the four instead of the Redbrand soldiers. This move would keep the four from a speedy trial and certain execution once they reached Neverwinter, while buying him time to prove that they weren't in league with the dragon by killing it. In the meantime, the four were to accompany [Scar](players.md#scar) to [Butterskull Ranch](locations.md#butterskull-ranch) - a place were [Scar](players.md#scar) was raised that was run by Alfonse “Big Al” Kalazorn, a retired sheriff and mentor to [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank). The five of them would be safe there.

The next morning, [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) took the supply cart and headed south into the mountains. [Scar](players.md#scar) climbed atop Luck and the five headed east to Big Al's [Butterskull Ranch](locations.md#butterskull-ranch). After traveling all day in the long cold dark, the five reached the abandoned town of [Conyberry](locations.md#conyberry). This place was a ghost town, maybe literally. Shutters creaked and banged in the wind as the group passed abandoned houses with stained and broken windows. In the distance near an unusually large fountain at the center of town, loomed four large figures obscured by darkness. As the five approached they saw that there were four very nervous looking horses there. On their hind quarters were branded three initials in a symbolic lockup... BAK.

[Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) stepped closer to one of the horses and touched its temples to speak to it. As he locked eyes with the creature, he realized something was very wrong. The horse was traumatized and couldn't speak the way other animals had. [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) only saw flashes, visions of orcs, and violence, a ranch under siege, and blood. Conveying the vision to the group, everyone saddled up on horses and hit a full gallop as they headed east to the ranch to help Big Al.

Nearing the ranch, the five saw the destruction foretold by the horse's vision. The barn and the blacksmith had been completely destroyed. Between the ice storms and the raid, much of the field's crops were destroyed as well. As they pushed toward the house the five spread out intelligently, and quickly dropped two orcs that were loitering outside the farmhouse. [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) cast spider climb on [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) who walked up the wall and hung inverted from the roof's overhang to peer in through the window. The rest of the group moved toward the main entrance of the house. Inside the house were 15 orcs and an orc war chief. Through a carefully planned surprise attack the five cleared the top floor and the entryway downstairs before alerting the entire clan. 

After an intense fight that left all but three of the orc clan standing, the five pushed into the kitchen where they were confronted by the orc war chief, who it came to be known was previously acquainted with [Scar](players.md#scar). [Scar](players.md#scar) expressed his rage and dismay at the actions of the orc war chief and his clan. The chief replied that [Scar](players.md#scar) cared too much for these humans, probably due to his half-breed bloodline. The war chief told his clan to stay back while he handled [Scar](players.md#scar) and his friends then he took a mighty swing of his two handed axe. Determined to stop the war chief, [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) stepped close and cast inflict wounds which devastated the orc chief, but also drew his ire. The chief dropped his heavy axe down onto [TK](players.md#tk-crumback)'s shoulder, followed through then brought it back up knocking the halfling unconscious. [Dimble](players.md#dimble) sprang to his side, stabilizing his friend and giving him a healing potion. [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj), [Scar](players.md#scar), and [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) continued to wail on the orc war chief, while [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) skittered out the back door to heal.

The battle raged inside the farmhouse while [TK](players.md#tk-crumback)'s attention was drawn to the well. He quickly turned the crank until the bucket was drawn up and instead of water he found a leather-bound pack of official looking documents. The clanking and shouting from the farmhouse brought him back into the fight and [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) tucked the parcel away then headed back inside. Soon after [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) rejoined the battle, the war chief hit [Scar](players.md#scar) with a crushing blow that sent him reeling. Seeing [Scar](players.md#scar) bloodied and fallen, [Tenaj](players.md#tenaj) let loose a hellish rebuke that finally ended the war chief's life.

A barn cat that was enjoying the show sidled up and wrapped his tail around a leather elvish boot, as [Gabranth](players.md#gabranth) casually thunked his dagger into the face of an orc he had pinned to the wall with a well-placed arrow. The remaining two orcs gladly pledged fealty to the closest thing that resembled an orc war chief to them, even if he was just regaining consciousness. "Hail Scar! Great war chief Scar!" they exclaimed as [Scar](players.md#scar) opened his eyes and cleared the fog of that last blow.

Shaking it off, [Scar](players.md#scar) went to the only place in the farmhouse they hadn't been yet... the basement. In the basement, they found the bound and bloody body of Big Al. Inspecting the body, it was clear that Big Al had gone to the great ranch in the sky. But, a note was found in the lining of his hat. It read:

<div class="note"><p>Scar,</p>
<p>If you're reading this, then you have found me dead. I had so hoped you would find me well.</p>
<p>Uncle Al</p>
</div>

It was then that [TK](players.md#tk-crumback) remembered the package he had found in the well outside! He gave the package to [Scar](players.md#scar) who opened it and discovered that it was Big Al's last will and testament which, among other declarations, named [Scar](players.md#scar) as the new owner of [Butterskull Ranch](locations.md#butterskull-ranch) and all it's associated features and properties. The group walked back upstairs and looked at each other. It had only been four days since they met at [the Stonehill Inn](locations.md#the-stonehill-inn), and so much had happened. So much had changed. Could [Doberan](npc.md#doberan-flank) really kill a dragon? Why is the sky so dark all the time now? Is [Dazlyn](npc.md#dazlyn-grayshard) really cursed? Did someone really murder [Adabra Gwynn](npc.md#adabra-gwynn)? Something told them they would find out soon enough.


## Episode 04
### Meanwhile...
##### Dimble, Gabranth, Tenaj, TK Crumback
##### Raven, Finch, Mock, Sparrow & Cardinal

**2020/02/01**  
Shortly after discovering that he now owned Butterskull Ranch, it became obvious to Scar that he had been grievously injured in his fight with the war chief. A small trail of blood trickled behind him as his two newly-committed orc tribesmen shuffled his bulky mass slowly down the hallway toward what was now his new bedroom. Big Al's old bed creaked a loud complaint when Scar collapsed onto the mattress and slipped out of consciousness once more. Suffering the dual exhaustions of travel and battle that had become well-known to the group as of late, the long rest was more than welcome when the night came and everyone found a place at the ranch to sleep or meditate comfortably.

As the sun rose the next morning, and the adrenaline of their collective scrap had completely passed through them, the group struggled to find their feet. Joints and muscles ached loudly and bruises squealed defiantly at the slightest touch. Somehow, these small annoyances seemed amplified now that the danger had passed and there was actually time to consider them. What they could really use now was... what was that smell coming from downstairs? It was a wonderful smell they hadn't smelled in what felt like an elf's age... breakfast!

Everyone but Scar followed their noses to the dining room where they saw a bountiful spread with homemade hot cakes, pastries with creme, a dozen fresh fruits, and a newly unsealed buttery skull as the centerpiece. Tenaj and Dimble looked at each other and then the two of them looked at TK and Gabranth who were looking at each other. Who had prepared this glorious breakfast feast?

Before they could verbalize their unspoken question, it was answered by the entrance of the oldest orc woman any of them had ever seen, followed by Scar's two new tribesmen who were carrying another tray of food and two jugs of wine. The orc woman smiled soulfully and introduced herself as Matron Volen of the Ice Tusk clan from the Stone Mountains and deeply apologized for the actions of the previous war-chief, Jahrukk the Brutal. She insisted that the events of the previous day happened against her advisement and that Jahrukk had disregarded her prophecy that he would be defeated and killed in battle by a new war chief; a prophecy which had now been proven true.

Everyone in the group grabbed a plate and loaded it up, sat down at the dining room table and listened as Volen expressed her condolences for Big Al. She said there was no need for further bloodshed and, now that Scar was the new war chief, the rest of the tribe would fall in line. As they ate and listened, the old woman's voice slowly became more and more monotonic, and... steady, almost... rhythmic... each word delivered at the exact... same... pitch... and before any of them had time to react, their minds were enveloped in a thick starry darkness and they all slipped out of consciousness right there at the dining room table.

What happened next is difficult to say, for how can you attempt to describe the indescribable? To the orc observers in the dining room, the four simply passed out with either their head lolled off to the side or plopped face-down on the table. From the perspective of Gabranth, Tenaj, Dimble and TK, however, they were instantly plunged into a dream-like state of trance and experienced what some might refer to as a collective vision or a shared hallucination. In an instant they saw their physical bodies left behind them, far below with the rest of the ranch, as they entered a realm of encroaching darkness. Although they remained aware of each other's presence, in this new place they had no obvious physical form.

Soaring through the vast darkness at an impossible speed, the only light that seemed to exist came from distant tiny points that looked like stars. Some of the stars stretched to form waves of light resembling threads of glass when lit by blue candlelight. Along the glass light threads, some of the stars seemed to move along them while others were stationary and brightly lit. Pulled by an unseen force beyond their control, the group's collective energies gravitated toward a very brightly lit star indeed. Getting closer they saw that it was so bright because it was actually three bright stars arranged very closely together in a perfect triangle. When they reached the base of this triangular arrangement, the stars glowed with such an intensity that the group was temporarily blinded by the flash of brilliance. When their vision recovered they found themselves standing at a dirt crossroads.

The sky was dark and it twisted above them into infinity as the group examined the paths before them. With little regard for their steps, the group moved to the entrance of each path and squinted to see what lay ahead. To the left, they saw a mid-sized town in flames being raided by a large invading force. To the right, they saw a city in the clouds where giant beings were engaged in a vigorous battle. And straight ahead, they saw Doberan trudging up an icy mountainside pushing through a furious blizzard with his horse-drawn supply cart. Looking behind them, they saw... nothing but emptiness. After some discussion, the group chose to take the path to the left.

The events that followed their choice are a blur. They saw the landscape of Faerun flash by below them and their individual energies were transported into other beings. In these new forms, the group seemed to both exist and not exist. It was as though they had total control and zero control over their new corporeal hosts. They were simultaneously pressed for time but outside of it. Looking at each other, they were dressed plainly but uniformly. The only adornments they wore were small dark iron harps that clung pinned their cloaks.

Gabranth found himself in the body of Finch, an Aarakocra druid.
Tenaj found herself in the body of Mock, a half-orc barbarian.
Dimble found themself in the body of Raven, a half-elf warlock.
TK found himself in the body of Sparrow, an elf ranger.
They were joined by Cardinal, a dragonborn paladin who seemed to be their leader.

The confusion of their recent transcorporealization was amplified by the total chaos of a town being raided, but what can be remembered is this. Greenest was in flames. The group fought as fiercely and bravely as they would have in their own bodies, slaying cultist and kobolds, outsmarting ambush drakes, and saving as many townsfolk as they could by evacuating them to the keep. 

The group eventually found an entrance through the sewers below the keep where they fought through swarms of rats to reach safety. Making their way to the parapets, the group met Governor Nighthill and Castellan Escobert the Red. As they were discussing their options, Governor Nighthill informed them that although the keep was surrounded the invading force seemed more intent on keeping them inside than razing the keep to the ground. It was almost as if they were looking for something as they went from house to house looting and burning anything that was flammable.

From their vantage point on the parapet, there could be seen a particularly powerful looking cultist in rich purple robes surrounded by a dozen guards. Nighthill suggested that the group go back out, avoid the purple robed menace, and capture a low-level cultist to interrogate so they might discover just what the hell the cultists were searching for. Sparrow, Finch, Mock, Raven, and Cardinal all went out and after a few minor scuffles, they cornered a beaten cultist. After a brutal interrogation where Mock left the cultist with multiple broken limbs, they got little except for the repeated phrase, "...for the great hoard that will usher in the reign of the Queen of Dragons, for the great hoard that will usher in the reign of the Queen of Dragons". The cultist claimed it was part of the **Cult of the Dragon** and that he was working for the "Dragon Lady". It was clear these cultists were loyal and would not talk easily.

Eventually, the raiding party ebbed and several prisoners were brought before the gates of the keep. One of the cult leaders, a hulking dragonborn called Cyanwrath announced a challenge. Because the raid was successful, and he was feeling generous, he would release this group of hostages if he were defeated in hand-to-hand combat by one of Nighthill's champions. Nighthill begged the group to assist, believing that anyone in his military ranks would be quickly defeated by Cyanwrath.

Cardinal seemed all to happy to volunteer. An epic duel ensued in front of the castle keep with all eyes focused on this melee between a blue dragonborn warrior and a red dragonborn paladin. The two combatants exchanged fierce blows and just when it seemed certain that Cardinal would be defeated, she let loose a billowing flame and a cough of soot that temporarily blinded Cyanwrath. Taking advantage of her opponent's incapacitation, Cardinal raised her might Dragon Slayer Longsword and brought it down hard, slicing deep into Cyanwrath's neck and delivering a critical blow that brought him to his knees. Cyanwrath quickly bled out from the wound and lay dead at Cardinal's feet.

The kobold guards holding the prisoners honored Cyanwrath's arrangement and let the prisoners go. The raiding party turned to leave, successful but somewhat deflated by the final defeat of their dragon speaker. At that instant, Gabranth, Tenaj, Dimble, and TK were split from their host bodies and found themselves disconnected and soaring above the town, flying up and to the north. They went so high so fast that eventually they were again surrounded by darkness and the tiny points of light and glowing glass threads they saw before.

Approaching another bright spot on one of the threads, they saw a flash of light and once more rapidly began to descend. They were momentarily relieved to find that they were shooting toward the familiar landscape of the Butterskull Ranch and in an instant they were reconnected with their own bodies, groggily opening their eyes. The room was lit with a bokeh effect and visual aberrations seemed to dance in the background behind Volen as the group opened their eyes and tried to piece together what happened. The two orc tribesmen gaped at the four from behind Volen's left and right shoulders. "What did you show them greatmother?", they asked with wide eyes.

Volen, unsmiling, squinted her eyes and replied, "They saw... exactly what they needed to see."

<div class="note"><p>Reported by: Cardinal<br />Location: Greenest</p>
<p>The invasion of Greenest by the Zentharim cult of the dragon has been repelled, but at great cost. While scouting the town with Sparrow, Finch, Mock, and Raven the town was set upon by an invading force consisting of cultists, acolytes, and monstrosities including kobolds and ambush drakes. A great many citizens and artisans of the town were killed in the invasion.</p>
<p>The presence of Lennithon was confirmed with my own eyes. There is indeed an adult blue dragon threat to Waterdeep, just as we feared. Somehow, Lennithon is working with or for the Zenth cultists, it is not yet clear which.</p>
<p>As for Greenest, Governor Nighthill has garrisoned what is left of the townsfolk in the keep, where I expect they will remain for a few days in case the invaders decide to come back for another round. Although the town has suffered a huge blow, they should be able to recover with some effort.</p>
<p>The only good news to report, other than there are *some* survivors, is that I was able to defeat and kill Cyanwrath. As you know, this is a significant blow to the Zenth cultists and, although I'm sure he will be replaced in due time, it feels good to cross him off my list.</p>
<p>One curious thing to report is the mental state of my agents. When we regrouped after the battle, none of them seemed to remember anything that happened in the fight. I would chalk it up to the shock of war, but these are all seasoned agents who have been through much worse. I simply can't explain it.</p>
<p>Hope will prevail,<br />Cardinal</p>
</div>